docs/EigenLayer-delegation-flow.md, before:


# Delegation Flow

While delegating to an operator is designed to be a simple process from the staker's perspective, a lot happens "under the hood".

## Operator Registration

In order to be delegated *to*, an operator must have first called `DelegationManager.registerAsOperator`. If a staker tries to delegate to someone who has not previously registered as an operator, their transaction will fail.

When an operator registers in EigenLayer, the following flow of calls between contracts occurs:

![Registering as an Operator in EigenLayer](images/EL_operator_registration.png?raw=true "Registering as an Operator in EigenLayer")

1. The would-be operator calls `DelegationManager.registerAsOperator`, providing either a `DelegationTerms`-type contract or an EOA as input. The DelegationManager contract stores the `DelegationTerms`-type contract provided by the operator, which may act as an intermediary to help facilitate the relationship between the operator and any stakers who delegate to them.
All of the remaining steps (2-4) proceed as outlined in the delegation process below; the DelegationManager contract treats things as if the operator has delegated *to themselves*.

## Staker Delegation

For a staker to delegate to an operator, the staker must either:
1. Call `DelegationManager.delegateTo` directly
OR
2. Supply an appropriate ECDSA signature, which can then be submitted by the operator (or a third party) as part of a call to `DelegationManager.delegateToBySignature`

In either case, the end result is the same, and the flow of calls between contracts looks identical:

![Delegating in EigenLayer](images/EL_delegating.png?raw=true "Delegating in EigenLayer")

1. As outlined above, either the staker themselves calls `DelegationManager.delegateTo`, or the operator (or a third party) calls `DelegationManager.delegateToBySignature`, in which case the DelegationManager contract verifies the provided ECDSA signature
2. The DelegationManager contract calls `Slasher.isFrozen` to verify that the operator being delegated to is not frozen
3. The DelegationManager contract calls `StrategyManager.getDeposits` to get the full list of the staker (who is delegating)'s deposits. It then increases the delegated share amounts of operator (who is being delegated to) appropriately
4. The DelegationManager contract makes a call into the operator's stored `DelegationTerms`-type contract, calling the `onDelegationReceived` function to inform it of the new delegation

Commit message:

get started on updating documentation
still needs more clarification/updates; left a TODO for myself to address, at minimum.

docs/EigenLayer-delegation-flow.md, after:


# Delegation Flow

While delegating to an operator is designed to be a simple process from the staker's perspective, a lot happens "under the hood".

## Operator Registration

In order to be delegated *to*, an operator must have first called `DelegationManager.registerAsOperator`. If a staker tries to delegate to someone who has not previously registered as an operator, their transaction will fail.

When an operator registers in EigenLayer, the following flow of calls between contracts occurs:

![Registering as an Operator in EigenLayer](images/EL_operator_registration.png?raw=true "Registering as an Operator in EigenLayer")

1. The would-be operator calls `DelegationManager.registerAsOperator`, providing their `OperatorDetails` and an (optional) `metadataURI` string as an input. The DelegationManager contract stores the `OperatorDetails` provided by the operator and emits an event containing the `metadataURI`. The `OperatorDetails` help define the terms of the relationship between the operator and any stakers who delegate to them, and the `metadataURI` can provide additional details about the operator.
All of the remaining steps (2 and 3) proceed as outlined in the delegation process below; the DelegationManager contract treats things as if the operator has delegated *to themselves*.

## Staker Delegation

For a staker to delegate to an operator, the staker must either:
1. Call `DelegationManager.delegateTo` directly
OR
2. Supply an appropriate ECDSA signature, which can then be submitted by the operator (or a third party) as part of a call to `DelegationManager.delegateToBySignature`

In either case, the end result is the same, and the flow of calls between contracts looks identical:

![Delegating in EigenLayer](images/EL_delegating.png?raw=true "Delegating in EigenLayer")

1. As outlined above, either the staker themselves calls `DelegationManager.delegateTo`, or the operator (or a third party) calls `DelegationManager.delegateToBySignature`, in which case the DelegationManager contract verifies the provided ECDSA signature
2. The DelegationManager contract calls `Slasher.isFrozen` to verify that the operator being delegated to is not frozen
3. The DelegationManager contract calls `StrategyManager.getDeposits` to get the full list of the staker (who is delegating)'s deposits. It then increases the delegated share amounts of operator (who is being delegated to) appropriately

TODO: complete explanation of signature-checking. For the moment, you can look at the IDelegationManager interface or the DelegationManager contract itself for more details on this.
