docs/multichain/README.md, before:

[elip-008]: https://github.com/eigenfoundation/ELIPs/blob/main/ELIPs/ELIP-008.md

## Multichain Docs

The EigenLayer multichain protocol enables *consumption* of EigenLayer L1 stake on supported destination chains. For launch the source chain is Ethereum Mainnet and the destination chains are Ethereum Mainnet and Base. 

This document provides an overview of system components, contracts, and user roles and is up-to-date with the latest [ELIP-008][elip-008]. Further documentation on the specific contracts can be found in this folder. 

---

### Contents

* [System Diagram](#system-diagram)
* [Source Chain](#source-chain)
    * [`CrossChainRegistry`](#cross-chain-registry)
    * [`OperatorTableCalculator`](#operator-table-calculator)
* [Destination Chain](#destination-chain)
    * [`OperatorTableUpdater`](#operator-table-updater)
    * [`CertificateVerifier`](#certificate-verifier)
* [Roles and Actors](#roles-and-actors)
* [Common User Flows](#common-user-flows)
    * [Register for Generation/Transport](#registering-for-generationtransport)

---

### System Diagram

```mermaid
classDiagram 
direction TD
namespace Source Chain {
		class CrossChainRegistry {
				createGenerationReservation
				removeGenerationReservation
				calculateOperatorTableBytes
		}
    class OperatorTableCalculator {
		    ECDSA/BN254 Table Calculator
	  }
		class EigenLayer Core {
				DelegationManager
				AllocationManager
				KeyRegistrar
				PermissionController
		}
}
namespace Off Chain {
    class Generator {
		    generateGlobalTableRoot
		}
		class Transporter {
				confirmGlobalTableRoot
				updateOperatorTable
		}
}
namespace Destination Chain {
    class OperatorTableUpdater {
		    confirmGlobalTableRoot
		    updateOperatorTable
		}
    class CertificateVerifier {
		    BN254/ECDSA
    }
}


CrossChainRegistry --> OperatorTableCalculator: Reads
OperatorTableCalculator --> EigenLayer Core: Reads
Generator --> CrossChainRegistry: Reads
Transporter --> Generator: Gets Root
Transporter --> OperatorTableUpdater: Confirms Root, Updates Tables
OperatorTableUpdater --> CertificateVerifier: Updates table
```
---

### Source Chain

Source chain contracts are deployed to Ethereum Mainnet. 

#### Cross Chain Registry

| File | Type | Proxy |
| -------- | -------- | -------- |
| [`CrossChainRegistry.sol`](../../src/contracts/multichain/CrossChainRegistry.sol) | Singleton | Transparent proxy |

This contract enables AVSs to register to have their stakes transported to supported destination chains:
* For a given operatorSet, an AVS denotes its operator table calculator and global configuration
* The offchain service calculates and transports each operator table from this contract at a pre-defined cadence

See full documentation in [`/source/CrossChainRegistry.md`](./source/CrossChainRegistry.md). 

#### Operator Table Calculator

These contracts are **deployed by an AVS** and define custom stake weights of operators in an operatorSet. They are segmented by key-type. 

See full documentation in the [middleware repository](https://github.com/Layr-Labs/eigenlayer-middleware/tree/dev/docs).

---

### Destination Chain

Destination chain contracts receive transported stake weights from an offchain service. The supported destination chains are Mainnet and Base. 

#### Operator Table Updater

| File | Type | Proxy |
| -------- | -------- | -------- |
| [`OperatorTableUpdater.sol`](../../src/contracts/multichain/OperatorTableUpdater.sol) | Singleton | Transparent proxy |

The `operatorTableUpdater` carries out two basic functions:
* Updating the `globalTableRoot` via a signed certificate from the *off-chain* `generator`. This is a permissionless function. 
* Updating operator tables via merkle proofs against the `globalTableRoot`. This is a permissionless function. 

See full documentation in [`/destination/OperatorTableUpdater.md`](./destination/OperatorTableUpdater.md). 

#### Certificate Verifier

| File | Type | Proxy |
| -------- | -------- | -------- |
| [`BN254CertificateVerifier`](../../src/contracts/multichain/BN254CertificateVerifier.sol) | Singleton | Transparent proxy |
| [`ECDSACertificateVerifier`](../../src/contracts/multichain/ECDSACertificateVerifier.sol) | Singleton | Transparent proxy |

A `Certificate` is a proof of a task being executed offchain by the operators of an operatorSet. Two types of key material are supported: ECDSA and BN254. 

See full documentation in [`/destination/CertificateVerifier.md`](./destination/CertificateVerifier.md). 

---

### Roles and Actors

#### AVS

An AVS is an entity that uses delegated or slashable security from operators to execute off-chain tasks. Consumers of an AVS utilize the `CertificateVerifier` to validate tasks. 

*Flows:*
* AVSs **register** for transporting their stakes via the `CrossChainRegistry`
* AVSs **deploy** an OperatorTableCalculator for each of their operatorSets

#### Generator

The `Generator` is an EigenLabs-operated entity that calculates and signs off on the `GlobalTableRoot` for all operatorSets that have requested to be transported to a `DestinationChain`. For the pilot program, there is no stake backing the `Generator` and it is not slashable. 

*Offchain Flows:*
* The generator **calculates** and **signs** the `GlobalTableRoot`. Within the contracts, this is referred to as the `globalRootConfirmerSet`. 

#### Transporter

The `Transporter` serves two purposes: 
* **Transport** the `GlobalTableRoot` to all destination chains
* **Transport** operator tables to all destination chains

Note: The Transport of the `GlobalTableRoot` and Operator Tables is *permissionless*. Any entity can transport the `GlobalTableRoot` with a valid certificate from the `Generator`. In addition, any entity can update the table with a valid merkle proof. See the [sidecar](https://github.com/Layr-Labs/sidecar) for how to run a transporter. 

---

### Common User Flows

#### Registering for Generation/Transport

Registering for generation/transport is done by the AVS. The AVS *MUST* set the `KeyType` in the `KeyRegistrar`, even if it is not using the `KeyRegistrar` for storing operator keys. 

![.](../images/multichain-registration.png)

Commit message:

docs: clear up certificate verification  (#1515)
**Motivation:**

We want more descriptive documentation for the `CertificateVerifier`
 
**Modifications:**

- Update natspec for `CertificateVerifier`, along with meaning of
`maxStalenessPeriod`
- Update docs for above

**Result:**

Clearer documentation

docs/multichain/README.md, after:

[elip-008]: https://github.com/eigenfoundation/ELIPs/blob/main/ELIPs/ELIP-008.md

## Multichain Docs

The EigenLayer multichain protocol enables *consumption* of EigenLayer L1 stake on supported destination chains. For launch the source chain is Ethereum Mainnet and the destination chains are Ethereum Mainnet and Base. 

This document provides an overview of system components, contracts, and user roles and is up-to-date with the latest [ELIP-008][elip-008]. Further documentation on the specific contracts can be found in this folder. 

---

### Contents

* [System Diagram](#system-diagram)
* [Source Chain](#source-chain)
    * [`CrossChainRegistry`](#cross-chain-registry)
    * [`OperatorTableCalculator`](#operator-table-calculator)
* [Destination Chain](#destination-chain)
    * [`OperatorTableUpdater`](#operator-table-updater)
    * [`CertificateVerifier`](#certificate-verifier)
* [Roles and Actors](#roles-and-actors)
* [Common User Flows](#common-user-flows)
    * [Register for Generation/Transport](#registering-for-generationtransport)

---

### System Diagram

```mermaid
classDiagram 
direction TD
namespace Source Chain {
		class CrossChainRegistry {
				createGenerationReservation
				removeGenerationReservation
				calculateOperatorTableBytes
		}
    class OperatorTableCalculator {
		    ECDSA/BN254 Table Calculator
	  }
		class EigenLayer Core {
				DelegationManager
				AllocationManager
				KeyRegistrar
				PermissionController
		}
}
namespace Off Chain {
    class Generator {
		    generateGlobalTableRoot
		}
		class Transporter {
				confirmGlobalTableRoot
				updateOperatorTable
		}
}
namespace Destination Chain {
    class OperatorTableUpdater {
		    confirmGlobalTableRoot
		    updateOperatorTable
		}
    class CertificateVerifier {
		    BN254/ECDSA
    }
}


CrossChainRegistry --> OperatorTableCalculator: Reads
OperatorTableCalculator --> EigenLayer Core: Reads
Generator --> CrossChainRegistry: Reads
Transporter --> Generator: Gets Root
Transporter --> OperatorTableUpdater: Confirms Root, Updates Tables
OperatorTableUpdater --> CertificateVerifier: Updates table
```

The protocol proceeds in the following process:

1. AVS deploys `AVSRegistrar` , configures metadata in EL, and gets operator registration
    1. AVS registers for generation/transport calling `CrossChainRegistry.makeGenerationReservation`
    2. The AVS deploys an `OperatorTableCalculator` 
2. At some cadence, the `Generator`` process gets all active generations from the `CrossChainRegistry` against the latest `finalizedBlock` 
    1. It then creates and signs a `globalTableRoot` of all operator table commitments
3. The transporter will generate a Certificate to validate that the Eigen Labs Operator signed off on the `globalTableRoot`. The root is then transported to ALL destination chains 
4. Lastly, the transporter will update all Operator Tables with a certificate. The sidecar will generate the proof data to then update tables via the `OperatorTableUpdater`

---

### Source Chain

Source chain contracts are deployed to Ethereum Mainnet. 

#### Cross Chain Registry

| File | Type | Proxy |
| -------- | -------- | -------- |
| [`CrossChainRegistry.sol`](../../src/contracts/multichain/CrossChainRegistry.sol) | Singleton | Transparent proxy |

This contract enables AVSs to register to have their stakes transported to supported destination chains:
* For a given operatorSet, an AVS denotes its operator table calculator and global configuration
* The offchain service calculates and transports each operator table from this contract at a pre-defined cadence

See full documentation in [`/source/CrossChainRegistry.md`](./source/CrossChainRegistry.md). 

#### Operator Table Calculator

These contracts are **deployed by an AVS** and define custom stake weights of operators in an operatorSet. They are segmented by key-type. 

See full documentation in the [middleware repository](https://github.com/Layr-Labs/eigenlayer-middleware/tree/dev/docs).

---

### Destination Chain

Destination chain contracts receive transported stake weights from an offchain service. The supported destination chains are Mainnet and Base. 

#### Operator Table Updater

| File | Type | Proxy |
| -------- | -------- | -------- |
| [`OperatorTableUpdater.sol`](../../src/contracts/multichain/OperatorTableUpdater.sol) | Singleton | Transparent proxy |

The `operatorTableUpdater` carries out two basic functions:
* Updating the `globalTableRoot` via a signed certificate from the *off-chain* `generator`. This is a permissionless function. 
* Updating operator tables via merkle proofs against the `globalTableRoot`. This is a permissionless function. 

See full documentation in [`/destination/OperatorTableUpdater.md`](./destination/OperatorTableUpdater.md). 

#### Certificate Verifier

| File | Type | Proxy |
| -------- | -------- | -------- |
| [`BN254CertificateVerifier`](../../src/contracts/multichain/BN254CertificateVerifier.sol) | Singleton | Transparent proxy |
| [`ECDSACertificateVerifier`](../../src/contracts/multichain/ECDSACertificateVerifier.sol) | Singleton | Transparent proxy |

A `Certificate` is a proof of a task being executed offchain by the operators of an operatorSet. Two types of key material are supported: ECDSA and BN254. 

See full documentation in [`/destination/CertificateVerifier.md`](./destination/CertificateVerifier.md). 

---

### Roles and Actors

#### AVS

An AVS is an entity that uses delegated or slashable security from operators to execute off-chain tasks. Consumers of an AVS utilize the `CertificateVerifier` to validate tasks. 

*Flows:*
* AVSs **register** for transporting their stakes via the `CrossChainRegistry`
* AVSs **deploy** an OperatorTableCalculator for each of their operatorSets

#### Generator

The `Generator` is an EigenLabs-operated entity that calculates and signs off on the `GlobalTableRoot` for all operatorSets that have requested to be transported to a `DestinationChain`. For the pilot program, there is no stake backing the `Generator` and it is not slashable. 

*Offchain Flows:*
* The generator **calculates** and **signs** the `GlobalTableRoot`. Within the contracts, this is referred to as the `globalRootConfirmerSet`. 

#### Transporter

The `Transporter` serves two purposes: 
* **Transport** the `GlobalTableRoot` to all destination chains
* **Transport** operator tables to all destination chains

Note: The Transport of the `GlobalTableRoot` and Operator Tables is *permissionless*. Any entity can transport the `GlobalTableRoot` with a valid certificate from the `Generator`. In addition, any entity can update the table with a valid merkle proof. See the [sidecar](https://github.com/Layr-Labs/sidecar) for how to run a transporter. 

---

### Common User Flows

#### Registering for Generation/Transport

Registering for generation/transport is done by the AVS. The AVS *MUST* set the `KeyType` in the `KeyRegistrar`, even if it is not using the `KeyRegistrar` for storing operator keys. 

![.](../images/multichain-registration.png)
